We thank the reviewers for their comments, below we address their specific remarks.

Reviewer #1

We will revise and polish the exposition issues pointed.

> Regarding the "validated family of typing rules":

We mean the set of typing rules that are proven to be valid with respect to the realizability semantics.

> Regarding the nomenclature "distribution" vs "combination":

We agree and will adopt this suggestion.

> Regarding the notation for pair combinations:

We are introducing a notation for combinations of pairs, which may syntactically resemble pairs of combinations. We will clarify this point to avoid ambiguity.

> Regarding the definition of the special modality for lambda abstractions:

We agree that the presentation can be improved and we will revise this part accordingly, incorporating a more systematic treatment.

> Regarding the strength of Theorem 3.1:

Since the reduction strategy modulo equivalence is deterministic, a standard diamond property is not expected in this setting. However, if we do not quotient by the equivalence, we obtain a form of local confluence:
  t ~ s
 /     \
t'      s'
\\     //
 r1 ~ r2
where / represents the elementary reduction ⇝, and // represents the reflexive–transitive closure of →. We will clarify this in the text.

> Regarding the rule (Sub):

The relation ≤ is defined in terms of inclusion in the realizability semantics (lines 325–327). We could identify some subtyping rules so as to make the typing system of Table 6 self-contained. We will add this for the final version.

Reviewer #2

> Regarding the possibility to describe non-unitary or non-physical things:

Our calculus builds on Lineal [1], which is untyped and allows Church encodings of booleans, with linear combinations representing qubits. In our simply typed setting, we introduce the constants |0⟩ and |1⟩, as Church encodings would require polymorphism.

The characterisation of unitary maps in [10] was restricted to the computational basis. In the present work, we extend this result to arbitrary bases, yielding a significantly stronger result. We plan as future work to develop a polymorphic version, recovering Church encodings and generalizing this characterisation.

Furthermore, all well-typed terms in our system have norm-1, and well-typed abstractions preserve this norm. Although not included in the current version, we could also make explicit that orthogonality is preserved, implying that well-typed abstractions correspond to isometries.

> Regarding the suitability of the notion of function superpositions:

A combination of abstractions has an arrow type only when it behaves appropriately, namely when it preserves the norm. This is enforced both by the realizability semantics and by the typing rules, which requires that the corresponding linear combination of bodies is well-typed.

In contrast, the examples given by the reviewer are typable as ♯ of an arrow type, rather than as arrow types themselves. They are treated as vectors in a vector space, not as functions. Then, it is expected that v1 − v1 has norm 0, v1 + v1 has norm 2, etc., which is consistent with their interpretation as vectors rather than functions.