We thank the reviewers for their comments and for their appreciation of our work. Below we address their specific remarks.

Reviewer #1

We will revise and polish the exposition issues pointed out by Reviewer 1.

> Line 17: "validated family of typing rules", what do you mean by this, exactly?

By this we mean the set of typing rules that are proven to be valid with respect to the realizability semantics.

> Line 132: the word "distribution" might be misleading; how about "combination"?

We agree and will adopt this suggestion.

> Line 136: it seems you are defining pairs of combinations and not combinations of pairs here. Please be more precise.

We are introducing a notation for combinations of pairs, which may syntactically resemble pairs of combinations. We will clarify this point to avoid ambiguity.

> Line 184: The two paragraphs starting here are a bit sloppy [...]

Thank you for this suggestion. We agree that the presentation can be improved and we will revise this part accordingly, incorporating a more systematic treatment along the proposed lines.

> Line 276: At first sight, Theorem 3.1 might seem weak, as one could expect a sort of diamond property. Please explain that this is not possible, due to the presence of distributions.

Since the reduction strategy modulo equivalence is deterministic, a standard diamond property is not expected in this setting. However, if we do not quotient by the equivalence, we obtain a form of local confluence, captured by the following diagram:
  t ~ s
 /     \
t'      s'
\\     //
 r1 ~ r2
where single arrows represent the elementary reduction ⇝, and double arrows represent the reflexive–transitive closure of →. We will clarify this in the text.

> Table 6: The rule (Sub) does not make too much sense to me, since ≤ seems to be undefined.

The relation ≤ is defined before (lines 325–327) in terms of inclusion in the realizability semantics. We could have identified some subtyping rules so as to make the typing system of Table 6 self-contained and not needing to require the realizability semantics. We will add this for the final version.

Reviewer #2

> One can potentially use this lambda calculus to describe quantum computations, but one can also use it to describe non-unitary maps or other non-physical things.

We thank the reviewer for this remark. Our calculus builds on Lineal [1], which is untyped and allows Church encodings of booleans, with linear combinations representing qubits. In our simply typed setting, we introduce the constants |0⟩ and |1⟩, as Church encodings would require polymorphism.

The characterisation of unitary maps in [10] (the non basis-sensitive version) was restricted to the boolean type generated by |0⟩ and |1⟩. In the present work, we extend this result to arbitrary bases, yielding a significantly stronger characterisation (Theorem 4.12). This provides a direct syntactic characterisation of unitary operators over arbitrary bases, which was not available in previous systems.

We plan as future work to develop a polymorphic version of the calculus, where Church encodings could be recovered and an even more general characterisation established.

Furthermore, all well-typed terms in our system have norm 1, and well-typed abstractions preserve this norm. Although not included in the current version, we could also make explicit that orthogonality is preserved, implying that well-typed abstractions correspond to isometries.

> The calculus provides a notion of superposition of functions, but it is not clear that it is a good notion. [...]

A linear combination of lambda abstractions has an arrow type only when it behaves appropriately, namely when it preserves the norm. This is enforced both by the realizability semantics (see the interpretation of arrow types) and by the typing rules, in particular (UnitLam), which requires that the corresponding linear combination of bodies is well-typed.

In contrast, the examples given by the reviewer (v1 and v2) are typable via rule (Sum) as ♯ of an arrow type, rather than as arrow types themselves. In other words, they are treated as vectors in a vector space, not as functions.

From this perspective, it is expected that v1 − v1 has norm 0, v1 + v1 has norm 2, etc. which is consistent with their interpretation as vectors rather than functions.
